README-pythonnet3.md, before:

# Python.NET 3 changes to the Orchid Python API

## Introduction 

This project defines the implementation of the Python API for Orchid*.

Specifically, the `orchid` package makes Orchid features available to Python applications and to the
Python REPL.

(* Orchid is a mark of Reveal Energy Services, Inc.)

This document focuses on a single aspect of that project. Changing from `pythonnet-2.5.2`  to
`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` caused a number of previously passing tests to fail. This document 
describes the changes that we discovered that resulted in these failures.

## Changes needed to pass all developer tests

The Orchid Python API initially depended on 
version 2.5.2 of the Python.NET package. When we updated the package dependencies to use 
`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, we had to make a number of changes to repair issues uncovered by our tests.
This document describes the changes we made to repair these issue.

### Fewer .NET methods need a developer to select a specific method overload

In `pythonnet-2.5.2`, a developer specified the overload by selecting it from the array returned by the `Overloads`
property of the class. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, the preferred way to access overloads is via the `__overloads__` 
property although the `Overloads` property is still available. In addition, the `__overloads__` / `Overloads` property 
cryptically reports, "<unbound method `__init__`>" of type `CLR.MethodBinding`.
  
### No automatic conversion between .NET `Enum` and Python `int` types 
  
For example, the `System.DateTimeKind` is exposed to Python as type, `System.DateTimeKind`. This change, 
in particular, helped reduce the need for developers to specify a .NET method overload.

### Equality with .NET objects (and _implicit_ conversions)

Using `pythonnet-2.5.2`, expressions like:

- `108 == DateTime.MaxValue`
- `108 == TimeSpan.MaxValue`
- `108 == TimeSpan.MinValue`

all returned `False`. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, these expressions now raise an exception, 
"TypeError: No method matches given arguments for TimeSpan.op_Equality: (<class 'int'>)". This author filed a "bug"
with the Python.NET team; however, the team eventually state:

"""
Yes, we tried to limit the "implicit" conversions to a minimum. I don't even know, which change in particular is
responsible for the behavioural change fix that you are observing here, but you are only able to compare things to a
.NET object that are directly convertible to it. If you'd really require this for `DateTimeOffset` and `TimeSpan`,
you could make them convertible via a Codec. Otherwise, I'd suggest you just generate the respective comparison
values using `.FromTicks`.
"""

### Default constructors for TimeSpan

The package, `pythonnet-2.5.2` allowed expressions like `TimeSpan()` even though no default constructor is documented
for the .NET `TimeSpan` class. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post`, this expression raises an exception, 
`TypeError: No method matches given arguments for TimeSpan..ctor: ()`

The fix is to explicitly supply zero (0 - an `int` argument). An alternative is to invoke an explicit method like 
`TimeSpan.FromTicks`.

### Fewer implicit conversions from `int` to `System.Int32`

When adding attribute values to a stage, `pythonnet-2.5.2` supported an implicit conversion between a Python `int` and  
a `System.Int32`. The updated package, `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, raises a .NET `ArgumentException` indicating that the 
attribute expected a value of type, `System.Int32`, but it received a value of `PyInt`.

To repair this error, I needed to **explicitly** convert the Python `int` value to `System.Int32` before invoking the 
`IMutableStage.SetAttribute()` method.

## Changes to low-level examples

Unfortunately, our low-level examples seems to result in more errors when we upgrade `pythonnet` from 2.5.2 to 
3.0.0.post1. 

### Load a targeted runtime must occur before calling `import clr`

The package `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` supports targeting 3 different runtimes:

- .NET Framework 4.7.2 and above
- .NET Core
- Mono

Targeting these different runtimes is good, but it requires loading the correct runtime **before** executing the 
statement, `import clr`. Further, once the system has loaded a runtime, attempting to load the runtime again results
in the `pythonnet` package raising an exception:

"""
Failed to initialize pythonnet: System.InvalidOperationException: This property must be set before runtime is initialized
   at Python.Runtime.Runtime.set_PythonDLL(String value)
   at Python.Runtime.Loader.Initialize(IntPtr data, Int32 size)
   at Python.Runtime.Runtime.set_PythonDLL(String value)
   at Python.Runtime.Loader.Initialize(IntPtr data, Int32 size)Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "auto_pick.py", line 21, in <module>
    import orchid
  File "C:\src\orchid-python-api\orchid\__init__.py", line 21, in <module>
    pythonnet.load('netfx')
  File "C:\Users\larry.jones\AppData\Local\pypoetry\Cache\virtualenvs\orchid-python-api-WYNzmHwi-py3.8\lib\site-packages\pythonnet\__init__.py", line 144, in load
    raise RuntimeError("Failed to initialize Python.Runtime.dll")
RuntimeError: Failed to initialize Python.Runtime.dll
"""

We have written the `orchid` module in execute the statement `pythonnet.load('netfx')` to load the runtime expected
by the Orchid Python API; consequently, the simplest solution to this issue is to arrange your imports to execute
`import orchid`, even if not otherwise needed, **before** executing `import clr`

### Again, fewer implicit conversions of Python types to .NET `Types`

Python (and `pythonnet-2.5.2`) allow a developer to pass an `int` to a function that expects a `System.Boolean`. 

`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` does not perform the typical conversion expected by a Python developer; specifically, the value 
zero (0) is converted to `False` and any other `int` value is converted to `True`.

Because of this issue the `auto_pick.py` low-level example (and its related `auto_pick...py` scripts) fail with the 
following stack trace:

"""
Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean

The above exception was the direct cause of the following exception:

System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean

System.AggregateException: One or more errors occurred. ---> System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
---> (Inner Exception #0) System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---<---


The above exception was the direct cause of the following exception:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "auto_pick.py", line 354, in <module>
    main(args)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 294, in main
    auto_pick_observations(native_project, native_monitor)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 259, in auto_pick_observations
    picked_observation = auto_pick_observation_details(unpicked_observation, native_monitor, part)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 217, in auto_pick_observation_details
    control_point_times = calculate_leak_off_control_point_times(leak_off_curve_times['L1'],
  File "auto_pick.py", line 93, in calculate_leak_off_control_point_times
    pressure_values = time_series_interpolant.Interpolate(time_series_interpolation_points, 0)
TypeError: No method matches given arguments for IInterpolant1D.Interpolate: (<class 'System.Double[]'>, <class 'int'>)
"""

To address this issue, a Python developer using `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` should either supply a literal `False` or 
perform the explicit conversion, `bool(int)`.

### .NET Enum members no longer converted to Python `int`

Version 2.5.2 of `pythonnet` return values of `int` type when exposing .NET `Enum` members to Python. For example, in 
2.5.2, `System.DateTimeKind.Utc` was zero (0). Similarly, `Orchid.FractureDiagnostics.FormationConnectionType.OpenHole`
was 3. 

However, version 3.0.0.post1 of `pythonnet` returns the .NET Enum member itself. So, both `System.DateTimeKind.Utc` and
`Orchid.FractureDiagnostics.FormationConnectionType` return themselves. 

In most situations, this change does not cause any behavior change in the Orchid Python API implementation. However,
the **Python** enumeration, `native_stage_adapter.ConnectionType` defined its members as the **integral** value 
returned by `pythonnet-2.5.2` In addition, other parts of the Orchid Python API implementation tested for equality of 
the converted `int` value of the .NET Enum to the Python enumeration members whose value was also of type `int`. In
`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, this comparison returned `False`. The correction was obscure without detailed understanding 
of the Python `enum.Enum` type. We changed the base class of `native_stage_adapter.ConnectionType` from `enum.IntEnum`
to simply, `enum.Enum`. (This was further complicated by an error in original implementation: a trailing ',' for the 
member value definitions resulting in the member value being a Python `tuple`.)

## Examples

In addition to the previous descriptions, this release includes two additional files in the directory, 
`orchid_python_api\examples\pythonnet_3`. These files contain experiments run to understand the changes between 
`pythonnet-2.5.2` and `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`:

- pn3_experiments.py
- pn3_experiments.ipynb

Commit message:

Repair IntEnum and reference_origins

README-pythonnet3.md, after:

# Python.NET 3 changes to the Orchid Python API

## Introduction 

This project defines the implementation of the Python API for Orchid*.

Specifically, the `orchid` package makes Orchid features available to Python applications and to the
Python REPL.

(* Orchid is a mark of Reveal Energy Services, Inc.)

This document focuses on a single aspect of that project. Changing from `pythonnet-2.5.2`  to
`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` caused a number of previously passing tests to fail. This document 
describes the changes that we discovered that resulted in these failures.

## Changes needed to pass all developer tests

The Orchid Python API initially depended on 
version 2.5.2 of the Python.NET package. When we updated the package dependencies to use 
`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, we had to make a number of changes to repair issues uncovered by our tests.
This document describes the changes we made to repair these issue.

### Fewer .NET methods need a developer to select a specific method overload

In `pythonnet-2.5.2`, a developer specified the overload by selecting it from the array returned by the `Overloads`
property of the class. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, the preferred way to access overloads is via the `__overloads__` 
property although the `Overloads` property is still available. In addition, the `__overloads__` / `Overloads` property 
cryptically reports, "<unbound method `__init__`>" of type `CLR.MethodBinding`.
  
### No automatic conversion between .NET `Enum` and Python `int` types 
  
For example, the `System.DateTimeKind` is exposed to Python as type, `System.DateTimeKind`. This change, 
in particular, helped reduce the need for developers to specify a .NET method overload.

### Equality with .NET objects (and _implicit_ conversions)

Using `pythonnet-2.5.2`, expressions like:

- `108 == DateTime.MaxValue`
- `108 == TimeSpan.MaxValue`
- `108 == TimeSpan.MinValue`

all returned `False`. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, these expressions now raise an exception, 
"TypeError: No method matches given arguments for TimeSpan.op_Equality: (<class 'int'>)". This author filed a "bug"
with the Python.NET team; however, the team eventually state:

"""
Yes, we tried to limit the "implicit" conversions to a minimum. I don't even know, which change in particular is
responsible for the behavioural change fix that you are observing here, but you are only able to compare things to a
.NET object that are directly convertible to it. If you'd really require this for `DateTimeOffset` and `TimeSpan`,
you could make them convertible via a Codec. Otherwise, I'd suggest you just generate the respective comparison
values using `.FromTicks`.
"""

### Default constructors for TimeSpan

The package, `pythonnet-2.5.2` allowed expressions like `TimeSpan()` even though no default constructor is documented
for the .NET `TimeSpan` class. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post`, this expression raises an exception, 
`TypeError: No method matches given arguments for TimeSpan..ctor: ()`

The fix is to explicitly supply zero (0 - an `int` argument). An alternative is to invoke an explicit method like 
`TimeSpan.FromTicks`.

### Fewer implicit conversions from `int` to `System.Int32`

When adding attribute values to a stage, `pythonnet-2.5.2` supported an implicit conversion between a Python `int` and  
a `System.Int32`. The updated package, `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, raises a .NET `ArgumentException` indicating that the 
attribute expected a value of type, `System.Int32`, but it received a value of `PyInt`.

To repair this error, I needed to **explicitly** convert the Python `int` value to `System.Int32` before invoking the 
`IMutableStage.SetAttribute()` method.

## Changes to low-level examples

Unfortunately, our low-level examples seems to result in more errors when we upgrade `pythonnet` from 2.5.2 to 
3.0.0.post1. 

### Load a targeted runtime must occur before calling `import clr`

The package `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` supports targeting 3 different runtimes:

- .NET Framework 4.7.2 and above
- .NET Core
- Mono

Targeting these different runtimes is good, but it requires loading the correct runtime **before** executing the 
statement, `import clr`. Further, once the system has loaded a runtime, attempting to load the runtime again results
in the `pythonnet` package raising an exception:

"""
Failed to initialize pythonnet: System.InvalidOperationException: This property must be set before runtime is initialized
   at Python.Runtime.Runtime.set_PythonDLL(String value)
   at Python.Runtime.Loader.Initialize(IntPtr data, Int32 size)
   at Python.Runtime.Runtime.set_PythonDLL(String value)
   at Python.Runtime.Loader.Initialize(IntPtr data, Int32 size)Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "auto_pick.py", line 21, in <module>
    import orchid
  File "C:\src\orchid-python-api\orchid\__init__.py", line 21, in <module>
    pythonnet.load('netfx')
  File "C:\Users\larry.jones\AppData\Local\pypoetry\Cache\virtualenvs\orchid-python-api-WYNzmHwi-py3.8\lib\site-packages\pythonnet\__init__.py", line 144, in load
    raise RuntimeError("Failed to initialize Python.Runtime.dll")
RuntimeError: Failed to initialize Python.Runtime.dll
"""

We have written the `orchid` module in execute the statement `pythonnet.load('netfx')` to load the runtime expected
by the Orchid Python API; consequently, the simplest solution to this issue is to arrange your imports to execute
`import orchid`, even if not otherwise needed, **before** executing `import clr`

### Again, fewer implicit conversions of Python types to .NET `Types`

Python (and `pythonnet-2.5.2`) allow a developer to pass an `int` to a function that expects a `System.Boolean`. 

`pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` does not perform the typical conversion expected by a Python developer; specifically, the value 
zero (0) is converted to `False` and any other `int` value is converted to `True`.

Because of this issue the `auto_pick.py` low-level example (and its related `auto_pick...py` scripts) fail with the 
following stack trace:

"""
Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean

The above exception was the direct cause of the following exception:

System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean

System.AggregateException: One or more errors occurred. ---> System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---
---> (Inner Exception #0) System.ArgumentException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean in method Double[] Interpolate(Double[], Boolean) ---> Python.Runtime.PythonException: 'int' value cannot be converted to System.Boolean
   --- End of inner exception stack trace ---<---


The above exception was the direct cause of the following exception:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "auto_pick.py", line 354, in <module>
    main(args)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 294, in main
    auto_pick_observations(native_project, native_monitor)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 259, in auto_pick_observations
    picked_observation = auto_pick_observation_details(unpicked_observation, native_monitor, part)
  File "auto_pick.py", line 217, in auto_pick_observation_details
    control_point_times = calculate_leak_off_control_point_times(leak_off_curve_times['L1'],
  File "auto_pick.py", line 93, in calculate_leak_off_control_point_times
    pressure_values = time_series_interpolant.Interpolate(time_series_interpolation_points, 0)
TypeError: No method matches given arguments for IInterpolant1D.Interpolate: (<class 'System.Double[]'>, <class 'int'>)
"""

To address this issue, a Python developer using `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1` should either supply a literal `False` or 
perform the explicit conversion, `bool(int)`.

### .NET Enum members no longer converted to Python `int`

Version 2.5.2 of `pythonnet` return values of `int` type when exposing .NET `Enum` members to Python. For example, in 
2.5.2, `System.DateTimeKind.Utc` was zero (0). Similarly, `Orchid.FractureDiagnostics.FormationConnectionType.OpenHole`
was 3. 

However, version 3.0.0.post1 of `pythonnet` returns the .NET Enum member itself. So, both `System.DateTimeKind.Utc` and
`Orchid.FractureDiagnostics.FormationConnectionType` return themselves. 

In most situations, this change does not cause any behavior change in the Orchid Python API implementation. However,
the **Python** enumeration, three Python enumerations defined its members as the **integral** value of the 
corresponding .NET Enum type.

- `native_stage_adapter.ConnectionType`
- `reference_origins.WellReferenceFrameXy`
- `reference_origins.DepthDatum`

In addition, other parts of the Orchid Python API implementation tested for equality of the converted `int` value of
the .NET Enum to the Python enumeration members whose value was also of type `int`. In `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`, this
comparison returned `False`. 

To correct these issue, we changed the base class of the three Python enumerations from `enum.IntEnum` to `enum.Enum`. 
In addition, we needed to change any comparisons involving the types to use the Python enumeration member `value`.

In addition, if you are unfamiliar with the Python `enum` module (the author was), read about it in 
[the standard library](https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/enum.html).

## Examples

In addition to the previous descriptions, this release includes two additional files in the directory, 
`orchid_python_api\examples\pythonnet_3`. These files contain experiments run to understand the changes between 
`pythonnet-2.5.2` and `pythonnet-3.0.0.post1`:

- pn3_experiments.py
- pn3_experiments.ipynb
