README.md, before:

# Introduction 

This project defines the implementation of the Python API for Orchid*.

(*Orchid in a mark of Revel Energy Services. Inc.)

Specifically, the `orchid` package exposes the Orchid API to Python applications and the Python REPL.
Additionally, this project installs four examples in the `examples` directory of the `orchid-python-api`
package:

- `plot_trajectories.ipynb`
- `plot_monitor_curves.ipynb`
- `plot_treatment.ipynb`
- `completion_analysis.ipynb`

The first three notebooks plot:

- The well trajectories for a project
- The monitor curves for a project
- The treatment curves (pressure, slurry rate and concentration) for a specific stage of a well in a project
 
Additionally, the notebook, `completion_analysis.ipynb`, provides a more detailed analysis of the completion
performed on two different wells in a project.
 
To use these examples, you may want to invoke the commands

- `copy_orchid_examples`
- `use_orchid_test_data`

Use the first command to copy the example files into your current (virtual environment) directory. Use the 
second command to change the examples to refer to the installed location of the Orchid test data files. Both 
commands are 
    - Command line commands that run in a console / terminal
    - Support a help flag (`-h` / `--help`) to provide you with help on running the commands

# Getting Started

## End-user Usage

We recommend the use of virtual environments to use the Orchid Python API. This choice avoids putting 
Orchid-specific-packages in your system Python environment.

You have several options to create and manage virtual environments: `venv`, `pipenv`, `poetry`, and `conda`.
The `venv ` is available as a standard Python package and is a spartan tool to manage environments. `poetry`
is a tool targeting developers but can be used by end-users. Our recommended tool is `pipenv`. It provides a 
good balance between `venv ` and `poetry`. Remember, both `pipenv` and `poetry` must be installed in your 
Python environment separately from Python itself, but can be installed using `pip`. Finally, `conda` supports 
the creation of virtual environments, but assumes that you have installed a Python distribution using Anaconda
or miniconda. We will not describe `conda` further.

Using any of `pipenv`, `venv` or `poetry`, your first step is to create a directory for *your* project. Then, 
change into *your* project directory.

### Pipenv

- Create virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console)
    - `</path/to/python-3.7/installation/Scripts/pipenv install`
    - `pipenv shell`
    - `pip install orchid-python-api`
        
## Venv

- Create a directory to host all your virtual environments. A good choice is 
`</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs>`. In subsequent steps, I will use the directory, 
`</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api>`, to hold my virtual environment.
- Create virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console)
    - Create an empty virtual environment
        - `</path/to/python-3.7/installation/python -m venv </path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api>`
    - Activate the virtual environment
        - `</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api/bin/Activate.ps1>` in Powershell or
        - `</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api/bin/Activate.bat>` in Windows console
    - Install orchid-python-api
        - `pip install orchid-python-api`
        
### Poetry

- Create a an empty virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console) by executing,
    `poetry env use /c/Users/larry.jones/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python37/python`
- Install packages into the empty virtual environment
    - `poetry shell`
    - `pip install orchid-python-api`

## Development Overview

To understand the structure of the code, the [development README](./docs_dev/README.md) contains an overview of 
the application / package design.

## Development

To avoid "contamination" of other python environments, we use [pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) to manage our
development (and target) environment. (See this [tutorial](https://realpython.com/pipenv-guide/) for a gentler
introduction to using `pipenv`.)

### Install Python

To use `pipenv`, you'll may need to perform up to three steps. First, if you do not have python **3** installed, you'll need to
install it. To determine if python 3 is installed:

- In the Windows 10, search bar, type "add or remove programs".
- On the "Apps & features" page, search for "python"

If you see an item named "Python 3.x", you have python 3 installed.

If Python is not installed, follow [these instructions](https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html). To ensure access
from the command line, be sure to select the "Add Python 3.x to PATH" option on the [installer start
page](https://docs.python.org/3/_images/win_installer.png). 

### Ensure Command Line Access To Python

Although you may be able perform development without command line access using, for example, `PyCharm`, many
instructions, including these instructions, will assume command line access. To verify command line access:

- Open a command prompt
- Type the command `python -V`

You should see a result like "Python 3.x".

### Install Pipenv

To install `pipenv`:

- Open a command prompt
- Invoke the command `pip install pipenv`.

This will install the `pipenv` package in your system python installation. (Note that python 3.x, by default, installs
`pip`. And if Python is available from the command line, `pip` will also be available from the command line.)

### Create development environment

To create the development environment using `pipenv`:

- Clone the `PyhonApi` repository into a directory on your workstation. For convenience, we'll call that directory
  `$PYTHON_API_ROOT`.
- Open a command prompt
- Navigate to the `$PYTHON_API_ROOT`directory by executing `cd $PYTHON_API_ROOT`
- Execute the command `pipenv install --ignore-pipfile`

For an explanation of this last command, see either the [reference documentation](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) or
the [tutorial](https://realpython.com/pipenv-guide/).

Wait patiently. This command will install **both** the run-time and development-time packages to support changing and
running in your local, development environment.

#### Alternative development environments

Many people, including this author, use an IDE for python development. It is not necessary, but provides a number of
conveniences for development.

To use [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/) from [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/):

- Start `PyCharm`
- Select `Open an existing project`.
- Select the `$PYTHON_API_ROOT` directory

(I believe it will detect your `Pipfile` / `Pipfile.lock` and use that to configure the project settings correctly.)

To use Visual Studio, a recommended tool is [Python Tools for Visual
Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/features/python/). The author assumes you are familiar with (or will
become familiar with) this tool and its capabilities.

If you prefer a "lighter" development environment, consider [Visual Studio
Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/python). Again, the author assumes you are familiar with (or will
become familiar) with this tool and its capabilities.

Finally, many, many, many other tools exist to support Python ranging from "editors" (Emacs and Vim) to tools like Atom
and Sublime. You can most likely use whatever editing environment you are familiar with (or, like me, more than one).
Remember the recommendation from the book, _The Pragmatic Programmer_: "Find one editor and stick to it."

# Build and Test Locally

TODO: Describe and show how to build your code and run the tests. 

# Contribute

To contribute to this project, follow our typical development process:

- Clone this repository using [HTTPS](https://github.com/Reveal-Energy-Services/orchid-python-api.git) or
  [SSH](git@github.com:Reveal-Energy-Services/orchid-python-api.git)
- Create a branch for you work typically branching from `develop`
- Make changes on your branch
- Push your branch to the Azure DevOps repository
- Create a pull request to have have others review your branch
- When approved, complete your pull request to merge you work onto `develop`

Although not yet enforced, any changes will need to pass all unit tests and any integration tests that are part of the
project before the pull request can be completed.

Commit message:

Fix issues running from installed directory
Poetry requires specifiy both a module *and* a function to invoke when
running a "script." Previous commits specified the `main` function of
the two utility modules; however, argument parsing was handled *before*
`main` was invoked (in the `if __name__ == '__main__'` block).

This commit moves the argument parsing into the module `main` function.
Additionally, this commit supports running from *both* the command line
(in the development directory) and from the poetry "script."

README.md, after:

# Introduction 

This project defines the implementation of the Python API for Orchid*.

(*Orchid in a mark of Revel Energy Services. Inc.)

Specifically, the `orchid` package exposes the Orchid API to Python applications and the Python REPL.
Additionally, this project installs four examples in the `examples` directory of the `orchid-python-api`
package:

- `plot_trajectories.ipynb`
- `plot_monitor_curves.ipynb`
- `plot_treatment.ipynb`
- `completion_analysis.ipynb`

The first three notebooks plot:

- The well trajectories for a project
- The monitor curves for a project
- The treatment curves (pressure, slurry rate and concentration) for a specific stage of a well in a project
 
Additionally, the notebook, `completion_analysis.ipynb`, provides a more detailed analysis of the completion
performed on two different wells in a project.
 
To use these examples, you may want to invoke the commands

- `copy_orchid_examples`
- `use_orchid_test_data`

Use the first command to copy the example files into your an optionally specified (virtual environment)
directory. (The default destination is your current working directory.) Use the second command to change the
examples in an optionally specified directory (your current directory) to refer to the specified location of 
the Orchid test data files. Both commands are 
    - Command line commands that run in a console / terminal
    - Support a help flag (`-h` / `--help`) to provide you with help on running the commands

# Getting Started

## End-user Usage

We recommend the use of virtual environments to use the Orchid Python API. This choice avoids putting 
Orchid-specific-packages in your system Python environment.

You have several options to create and manage virtual environments: `venv`, `pipenv`, `poetry`, and `conda`.
The `venv ` is available as a standard Python package and is a spartan tool to manage environments. `poetry`
is a tool targeting developers but can be used by end-users. Our recommended tool is `pipenv`. It provides a 
good balance between `venv ` and `poetry`. Remember, both `pipenv` and `poetry` must be installed in your 
Python environment separately from Python itself, but can be installed using `pip`. Finally, `conda` supports 
the creation of virtual environments, but assumes that you have installed a Python distribution using Anaconda
or miniconda. We will not describe `conda` further.

Using any of `pipenv`, `venv` or `poetry`, your first step is to create a directory for *your* project. Then, 
change into *your* project directory.

### Pipenv

- Create virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console)
    - `</path/to/python-3.7/installation/Scripts/pipenv install`
    - `pipenv shell`
    - `pip install orchid-python-api`
        
## Venv

- Create a directory to host all your virtual environments. A good choice is 
`</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs>`. In subsequent steps, I will use the directory, 
`</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api>`, to hold my virtual environment.
- Create virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console)
    - Create an empty virtual environment
        - `</path/to/python-3.7/installation/python -m venv </path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api>`
    - Activate the virtual environment
        - `</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api/bin/Activate.ps1>` in Powershell or
        - `</path/to/user/directory/.virtualenvs/orchid-python-api/bin/Activate.bat>` in Windows console
    - Install orchid-python-api
        - `pip install orchid-python-api`
        
### Poetry

- Create a an empty virtual environment (using Powershell (recommended) or Windows console) by executing,
    `poetry env use /c/Users/larry.jones/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python37/python`
- Install packages into the empty virtual environment
    - `poetry shell`
    - `pip install orchid-python-api`

## Development Overview

To understand the structure of the code, the [development README](./docs_dev/README.md) contains an overview of 
the application / package design.

## Development

To avoid "contamination" of other python environments, we use [pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) to manage our
development (and target) environment. (See this [tutorial](https://realpython.com/pipenv-guide/) for a gentler
introduction to using `pipenv`.)

### Install Python

To use `pipenv`, you'll may need to perform up to three steps. First, if you do not have python **3** installed, you'll need to
install it. To determine if python 3 is installed:

- In the Windows 10, search bar, type "add or remove programs".
- On the "Apps & features" page, search for "python"

If you see an item named "Python 3.x", you have python 3 installed.

If Python is not installed, follow [these instructions](https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html). To ensure access
from the command line, be sure to select the "Add Python 3.x to PATH" option on the [installer start
page](https://docs.python.org/3/_images/win_installer.png). 

### Ensure Command Line Access To Python

Although you may be able perform development without command line access using, for example, `PyCharm`, many
instructions, including these instructions, will assume command line access. To verify command line access:

- Open a command prompt
- Type the command `python -V`

You should see a result like "Python 3.x".

### Install Pipenv

To install `pipenv`:

- Open a command prompt
- Invoke the command `pip install pipenv`.

This will install the `pipenv` package in your system python installation. (Note that python 3.x, by default, installs
`pip`. And if Python is available from the command line, `pip` will also be available from the command line.)

### Create development environment

To create the development environment using `pipenv`:

- Clone the `PyhonApi` repository into a directory on your workstation. For convenience, we'll call that directory
  `$PYTHON_API_ROOT`.
- Open a command prompt
- Navigate to the `$PYTHON_API_ROOT`directory by executing `cd $PYTHON_API_ROOT`
- Execute the command `pipenv install --ignore-pipfile`

For an explanation of this last command, see either the [reference documentation](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) or
the [tutorial](https://realpython.com/pipenv-guide/).

Wait patiently. This command will install **both** the run-time and development-time packages to support changing and
running in your local, development environment.

#### Alternative development environments

Many people, including this author, use an IDE for python development. It is not necessary, but provides a number of
conveniences for development.

To use [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/) from [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/):

- Start `PyCharm`
- Select `Open an existing project`.
- Select the `$PYTHON_API_ROOT` directory

(I believe it will detect your `Pipfile` / `Pipfile.lock` and use that to configure the project settings correctly.)

To use Visual Studio, a recommended tool is [Python Tools for Visual
Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/features/python/). The author assumes you are familiar with (or will
become familiar with) this tool and its capabilities.

If you prefer a "lighter" development environment, consider [Visual Studio
Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/python). Again, the author assumes you are familiar with (or will
become familiar) with this tool and its capabilities.

Finally, many, many, many other tools exist to support Python ranging from "editors" (Emacs and Vim) to tools like Atom
and Sublime. You can most likely use whatever editing environment you are familiar with (or, like me, more than one).
Remember the recommendation from the book, _The Pragmatic Programmer_: "Find one editor and stick to it."

# Build and Test Locally

TODO: Describe and show how to build your code and run the tests. 

# Contribute

To contribute to this project, follow our typical development process:

- Clone this repository using [HTTPS](https://github.com/Reveal-Energy-Services/orchid-python-api.git) or
  [SSH](git@github.com:Reveal-Energy-Services/orchid-python-api.git)
- Create a branch for you work typically branching from `develop`
- Make changes on your branch
- Push your branch to the Azure DevOps repository
- Create a pull request to have have others review your branch
- When approved, complete your pull request to merge you work onto `develop`

Although not yet enforced, any changes will need to pass all unit tests and any integration tests that are part of the
project before the pull request can be completed.
